Who might care about this problem and why?

The goal of this project was to predict revenue per customer at the GStore. 
Google and other businesses with similar E-stores care significantly about this problem 
because a better understanding of customer spending patterns can help marketing and other 
strategic outreach teams optimize investments in promotional strategies as well as budget management. 
This may result in profitable changes towards business operation as well as a platform for 
understanding the Gstore customer base and specifically the factors that aid in predicting 
which users are more likely to make significant purchases at the Gstore than others. 
The end goal hinges on increasing profitability of the Gstore and efficiency of subgroups within Google marketing.


Why might it be a challenging problem to address?

The most notable challenge comes with addressing the 80/20 rule and class imbalance, 
given that the majority of revenue is produced by a very small percentage of customers. 
Additionally, from a data science perspective a major obstacle in this project has been 
handling the size of the data, with the training set being 25GB and the test set being 7GB. 
For example, when running the random forest algorithm on our local machine, we were not able 
to build it with more than approximately 50 trees before our machine crashed. Additionally, parsing 
the file in JSON format was a new problem for our team to tackle.


What other problems resemble this problem?

This problem concerns predicting customer spending so that Google can use this information for optimizing
marketing campaigns and other advertising efforts. Many business problems resemble this type of project, for 
example when businesses need to determine what coupons to offer to different consumers based on the likelihood
that customers from a particular group are likely to buy a product and how much they will likely spend. Additionally, 
stock investors that might be looking to invest in a company based on expected annual returns may try to predict 
customer spending as one factor in this estimation. Additionally, other businesses may want to answer the question of how 
much product to make for a given time period and could use expected purchases as a way to predict how much apparel
they will sell and thus need on hand over time. Lastly, other stores that may want to create their own e-commerce site
and determine which features are relevant when determining sales revenue, so they could turn to this type of project
for insight.


What might account for the differing performance levels of the mandatory models?

The biggest contributor to the differing performance of the models is due to the functional 
form assumed of the data by the models and the flexibility that they allow. Specifically, one 
could reasonably expect that these data exhibit a highly nonlinear functional form, and thus 
we would expect that the OLS model would not perform as well as the spline-based regression or 
the random forest which allow for greater flexibility. One additional factor that may impact the 
model’s performance is the class imbalance. For example, with random forest the model continuously 
tries to improve the accuracy of the predictions, however if 98% of the training data for consumer 
revenue is $0, then the model will be pulled towards predicting $0 for most customers even though 
a model like this is useless in practicality.
